1. Which of the following works is not written by William Wordsworth?
a) The Thorn
b) The Idiot Boy
c) Simon Lee
d) Beyond
Answer: Beyond
2. Who refers to William Wordsworth as an "ever enduring man"?
a) Dr. Johnson
b) John Keats
c) De Quincey
d) S.T. Coleridge
Answer: S.T. Coleridge
3. A Modern Comedy is written by:
a) John Galsworthy
b) William Shakespeare
c) Ben Jonson
d) Sheridan
Answer: John Galsworthy
4. John Galsworthy's ideas on drama are found in:
a) The Inn of Tranquillity
b) The Patrician
c) Maid in waiting
d) Indian Summer of a Forsyte
Answer: The Inn of Tranquillity
5. Cokeson is a character in:
a) Justice
b) Macbeth
c) Areopagitica
d) As You Like it
Answer: Justice
6. Williams Shakespeare's The Comedy of Errors was a free adaptation of:
a) The Spanish Tragedie of Thomas Kyd
b) Menaechmi of Plautus
c) Chronicles of England by Holinshed
d) Decameron by Boccacio
Answer: Menaechmi of Plautus
7. Who exclaims in his sonnet that, "Under this carved marble of thine own, sleep, brave tragedian, Shakespeare, sleep alone"?
a) Ben Jonson
b) Michel Drayton
c) John Dryden
d) William Basse
Answer: William Basse
8. Who describes William Shakespeare as, "an upstart crow beautified with our feathers"?
a) John Lyly
b) Robert Greene
c) George Peele
d) Christopher Marlowe
Answer: Robert Greene
9. Who remarked about his father as given below: "My father destined me from my infancy to the study of polite literature, which I embraced with such avidity, that from the age of twelve, I hardly ever retired from my books before midnight".
a) John Milton
b) William Wordsworth
c) Lord Alfred Tennyson
d) John Galsworthy
Answer: John Milton
10. For whom did William Wordsworth speak in his famous line, "Thy soul was like a star, and dwelt apart"?
a) W. Shakespeare
b) John Galsworthy
c) John Milton
d) Spenser
Answer: John Milton
11. Milton's Paradise Regained takes its theme from:
a) St. Catherine's Sermons
b) St. Luke's Gospel
c) The Bible
d) Jesus Christ's Preachings
Answer: St. Luke's Gospel
12. In which work of Wordsworth does the line "still, sad music of humanity" occur?
a) Tintern Abbey
b) The Recluse
c) Immortality Ode
d) The Prelude
Answer: Tintern Abbey
13. In which poem of Wordsworth, does the line, "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting", occur?
a) Tintern Abbey
b) The Recluse
c) The Prelude
d) Immortality Ode
Answer: Immortality Ode
14. Which of the following is a 'pastoral elegy'?
a) Elegy written in a Country Churchyard
b) In Memoriam
c) Lycidas
d) Duino Elegy
Answer: Lycidas
15. Lyrical Ballads was published in the year:
a) 1789
b) 1798
c) 1785
d) 1791
Answer: 1798
16. What kind of plays did Galsworthy write?
a) Problem plays
b) Poetic drama
c) Absurd drama
d) Kitchensink drama
Answer: Problem plays
17. Which is the incorrect sentence?
a) You have twenty rupees
b) I have two ten-rupee notes
c) India cannot accept the two-nations theory
d) Mankind is demented
Answer: India cannot accept the two-nations theory
18. The famous epic Paradise Lost by Milton contains:
a) 16 books
b) 12 books
c) 10 books
d) 14 books
Answer: 12 books
19. Which of the following plays of Shakespeare is not a comedy?
a) As You Like It
b) Twelfth Night
c) A Midsummer Night's Dream
d) Antony and Cleopatra
Answer: Antony and Cleopatra
20. 'Lyric' has been the most popular form of poetry during:
a) Early 18th Century
b) Late 18th century and Complete 19th Century
c) Early 20th Century
d) Mid 20th Century
Answer: Late 18th century and Complete 19th Century
21. Which form of poetry is the poem, 'The Solitary Reaper'?
a) Ode
b) Lyric
c) Ballad
d) Elegy
Answer: Lyric
22. 'Desdemona', famous Shakespearean character, belongs to which of the following plays?
a) King Lear
b) Othello
c) Hamlet
d) Twelfth Night
Answer: Othello
23. "Life's but a walking shadow... It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing." Aforesaid lines spoken by Macbeth occur in:
a) Act III, Scene I of Macbeth
b) Act V, Scene V of Macbeth
c) Act IV, Scene I of Macbeth
d) Act V, Scene III of Macbeth
Answer: Act V, Scene V of Macbeth
24. Which of the following words is misspelt?
a) Convenience
b) Yacht
c) Indispensable
d) Consciensious
Answer: Consciensious
25. Which of the following statements is incorrect as a rule of grammar?
a) 'Shall' with the subject in the second and third person introduces the idea of compulsion
b) 'Will' with the subject in the first person expresses bleak sense of determination.
c) 'Should' with the second and third persons means 'ought to'.
d) 'Would' with the subject in the first person gives emphasis.
Answer: 'Will' with the subject in the first person expresses bleak sense of determination.
26. Which of the following is mismatched with reference to John Milton's work?
a) Of Education : 1644
b) Areopagitica: 1647
c) Lycidas: 1637
d) Paradise Lost: 1667
Answer: Areopagitica: 1647
27. Which of the following verbs is not followed by correct preposition?
a) amalgamate with
b) anxious at
c) bound to
d) beneficient to
Answer: anxious at
28. Which of the following statements is incorrect with reference to "colon"?
a) The "colon" is used to introduce a list.
b) The "colon" is used to introduce an explanation.
c) The "colon" is used to separate two contracts.
d) The "colon" is used to separate two related clauses.
Answer: The "colon" is used to separate two related clauses.
29. "Beggars description" means:
a) Beyond description
b) By chance
c) Less described
d) Poorly described
Answer: Beyond description
30. Which of the following pairs is mismatched with reference to masculine-feminine gender sequence?
a) Boar: Sow
b) Buck: Doe
c) Fox: Vixen
d) Buck Rabbit: Pea Rabbit
Answer: Buck Rabbit: Pea Rabbit
31. Which of the following is not a synonym of 'Frenzy'?
a) Rage
b) Gulle
c) Excitement
d) Enthusiasm
Answer: Gulle
32. In the First Folio edition of Shakespeare's dramas, which play was omitted?
a) Macbeth
b) Pericles
c) A Midsummer Night's Dream
d) Titus Andronicus
Answer: Pericles
33. Which of the following plays is a social satire dealing with the fashion and fads of the day?
a) A Midsummer Night's Dream
b) Antony and Cleopatra
c) Love's Labour Lost
d) As You Like It
Answer: Love's Labour Lost
34. In the state of his blindness, with whom does Milton not compare himself?
a) Blind Thamyris
b) Blind Maeonides
c) Tiresias and Phineus
d) Lycidas
Answer: Lycidas
35. Who is often called as 'The Poetical Son of Spenser'?
a) John Milton
b) William Shakespeare
c) Alfred, Lord Tennyson
d) John Galsworthy
Answer: John Milton
36. In the opening invocation of the Paradise Lost 'Oreb' refers to:
a) Spirit
b) Siloa
c) Mt. Horeb
d) Aonian
Answer: Mt. Horeb
37. In William Wordsworth's 'The Solitary Reaper', The Solitary Highland Lass' is:
a) A girl from Ireland
b) A girl from Scotland
c) A girl from Arabian Sands
d) None of the above
Answer: A girl from Scotland
38. From which poem of William Wordsworth, is the line-"Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting" taken?
a) Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early childhood
b) Upon Westminister Bridge
c) Lucy
d) The world is too much with us
Answer: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early childhood
39. Which of the following works is a novelette written by John Galsworthy?
a) The Skin Game
b) The Second Mrs Tanqueray
c) The Apple Tree
d) The Eldest Son
Answer: The Apple Tree
40. As a dramatist John Galsworthy belongs to the:
a) Romantic tradition
b) Psychological tradition/school
c) Realist tradition of Jones and Pinero
d) Tradition of Edward Bond
Answer: Realist tradition of Jones and Pinero
41. In The Forsyte Saga, the Forsytes belong to:
a) a country side family
b) a typical city family
c) the family of imaginary Islanders
d) none of the above
Answer: a typical city family
42. Which work has been called by Shakespeare as, "the first heir of my invention'?
a) Hero and Leander
b) The Rape of Lucrece
c) Venus and Adonis
d) The Comedy of Errors
Answer: Venus and Adonis
43. William Shakespeare died on:
a) April 20, 1616
b) April 28, 1616
c) April 23, 1616
d) April 25, 1616
Answer: April 23, 1616
44. What was the name of the house of Shakespeare in Stratford?
a) New Place
b) Stratford House
c) Grand Palace
d) High Place
Answer: New Place
45. Which is the correct serial of the tragedies of Shakespeare?
a) Hamlet, King Lear, Machbeth, Othello
b) Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, Macbeth
c) Othello, King Lear, Hamlet, Macbeth
d) Hamlet, Macbeth, King Lear, Othello
Answer: Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, Macbeth
46. In which work, Milton states that "While the still Morn went out with sandals grey"?
a) L'Allegro
b) Il Penseroso
c) Comus
d) Lycidas
Answer: Lycidas
47. Through which work does Milton intend, 'to justify the ways of God to men'?
a) Lycidas
b) Paradise Regained
c) Samson Agonistes
d) Paradise Lost
Answer: Paradise Lost
48. In which work of John Milton does the character 'Delilah', appear?
a) Paradise Lost
b) Paradise Regained
c) Comus
d) Samson Agonistes
Answer: Samson Agonistes
49. Wordsworth's The Borderers comes under the category of:
a) Prose tragedy
b) Epic
c) Verse tragedy
d) Ode
Answer: Verse tragedy
50. In 1609, a collection of Shakespeare's sonnet was printed by:
a) Dark Lady of the Sonnets
b) Mr. W.H.
c) Thomas Thorpe
d) George Peele
Answer: Thomas Thorpe
51. An alternative name for prose 'epigram' is:
a) Aphorism
b) Epigramospo
c) Epiprosonium
d) Apophthegm
Answer: Aphorism
52. Which, out of the following is not a poem by Wordsworth?
a) 'London 1802'
b) 'Strange Fits of Passion Have I Known'
c) 'The Solitary Reaper'
d) 'London'
Answer: 'London'
53. "Little we see in nature that is ours" is a line from:
a) "Tintern Abbey"
b) "Immortality Ode"
c) "Daffodils"
d) "The world is too much with us"
Answer: "The world is too much with us"
54. Which of the following Shakespearean plays is in three parts?
a) Henry IV
b) Richard III
c) Richard II
d) Henry VI
Answer: Henry VI
55. The line, "They also serve who only stand and wait", occurs in which of the following poems?
a) 'True Love' by Shakespeare
b) 'On His Blindness' by Milton
c) 'Daffodils' by Milton
d) 'Ode on a Grecian Urn' by John Keats
Answer: 'On His Blindness' by Milton
56. Which of the following plays of Shakespeare does not belong to the last phase of his career?
a) Much Ado About Nothing
b) The Tempest
c) Cymbeline
d) The Winter's Tale
Answer: Much Ado About Nothing
57. Which famous romantic poem contains the line ___ 'Beauty is truth, truth beauty'?
a) 'The World is Too Much With Us'
b) Ode to a Nightingale
c) To a Skylark
d) Ode on a Grecian Urn
Answer: Ode on a Grecian Urn
58. Direction: Following sentences have been transformed as per directions given in their brackets. Choose the correct sentence from the choices given. As the weather was bad, we stayed indoors. (Simple sentence)
a) The weather was bad and we stayed indoors
b) Since the weather was bad, we stayed indoors
c) It being a bad weather we stayed indoors
d) None of these
Answer: It being a bad weather we stayed indoors
59. Direction: Following sentences have been transformed as per directions given in their brackets. Choose the correct sentence from the choices given. He is believed to have died of malaria. (Complex sentence)
a) He is believed that he would have died of malaria
b) It is believed that he died of malaria
c) It is believed that malaria is the cause of his death
d) People believe that he died of malaria
Answer: It is believed that he died of malaria
60. Shakespeare's popular play Merchant of Venice belongs to which of the following literary forms?
a) Comedy
b) Romance
c) Tragicomedy
d) History play
Answer: Tragicomedy
61. Which of the following is the dominant theme of Shakespeare's famous play 'King Lear'?
a) Jealousy
b) Ambition
c) Revenge
d) Filial Ingratitude
Answer: Filial Ingratitude
62. Which of the following characters does not belong to famous Shakespearean tragedy, Hamlet?
a) Ophelia
b) Claudius
c) Polonius
d) Cassio
Answer: Cassio
63. Directions: Choose the appropriate preposition from the options given below each of the following sentences: Can the doctor cure him _____ asthma?
a) of
b) from
c) in
d) within
Answer: of
64. Directions: Choose the appropriate preposition from the options given below each of the following sentences: You cannot prevent me _______ working.
a) to
b) of
c) from
d) at
Answer: from
65. Directions: Choose the appropriate preposition from the options given below each of the following sentences: I have not seen him _____ last month.
a) for
b) from
c) since
d) till
Answer: since
66. Directions: Choose the appropriate preposition from the options given below each of the following sentences: Your behaviour does not admit ______ any excuses.
a) in
b) of
c) for
d) to
Answer: of
67. Which of the following poems is not composed by John Milton?
a) On His Blindness
b) L' Allegro
c) True Love
d) Il Penseroso
Answer: True Love
68. UBIQUITOUS denotes:
a) All powerful
b) Too much assertive
c) Loyal and sincere
d) Seeming to be everywhere at the same time
Answer: Seeming to be everywhere at the same time
69. UNENVIABLE denotes:
a) Arousing envy
b) Difficult or unpleasant
c) That which is not accessible
d) Something that is not unavoidable
Answer: Difficult or unpleasant
70. INCUMBENCY denotes:
a) State of being in a privileged condition
b) Protection against any possible financial loss
c) An official position or the duration when one holds it
d) Period which is counted for the purposes of pension
Answer: An official position or the duration when one holds it
71. The opposite of clandestine is:
a) Open
b) Secret
c) Surreptitious
d) Serious
Answer: Open
72. Lugubrious means:
a) Dejected
b) Buttery
c) Imbecile
d) Jovial
Answer: Dejected
73. Directions: Choose the sentence which makes appropriate use of verbs given in the brackets. The police (kill) you, if you (try) to run away.
a) The police (kills) you, if you (try) to run away
b) The police (will kill) you, if you (try) to run away
c) The police (may kill) you, if you (tried) to run away
d) The police (would kill) you, if you (shall try) to run away
Answer: The police (will kill) you, if you (try) to run away
74. Directions: Choose the sentence which makes appropriate use of verbs given in the brackets. I (be) there, situation (be) different.
a) I (had been) there, situation (was) different
b) I (was) there, situation (was) different
c) (Had) I (been) there, situation (would have been) different
d) (Had) I (been) there, situation (had been) different
Answer: (Had) I (been) there, situation (would have been) different
75. Directions: Choose the sentence which makes appropriate use of verbs given in the brackets. If I (be) God, I (eliminate) all suffering.
a) If I (was) God, I (could eliminate) all suffering
b) If I (were God), I (would eliminate) all suffering
c) If I (had been) God, I (had eliminate) all suffering.
d) If I (am) God, I (can eliminate) all suffering
Answer: If I (were God), I (would eliminate) all suffering
76. Directions: Choose the sentence which makes appropriate use of verbs given in the brackets. I (wish) that you (be) right.
a) I (wished) that you (had been) right
b) I (wish) that you (were) right
c) I (wish) that you (will be) right
d) I (may wish) that you (were) right
Answer: I (wish) that you (were) right
77. The good book of the hour, then, _____ I do not speak of the bad ones _______ is simply the useful or pleasant talk of some person whom you cannot otherwise converse with, printed for you. Very useful often, telling you what you need to know; very pleasant often; as a sensible friend's present talk would be. These bright accounts of travels; good-humoured and witty discussion; lively or pathetic story telling in the form of novel; firm fact-telling, by the real agents concerned in the events of passing history; all these books of the hour, multiplying among us as education becomes more general, are a peculiar characteristic and possession of the present age. We ought to be entirely thankful for them, and entirely ashamed of ourselves if we make no good use of them. But we make the worst possible use, if we allow them to usurp the place of true books: for, strictly speaking, they are not books at all, but strictly speaking, they are not books at all, but merely letters or newspapers in good print. How, according to the author, is the good book of the hour very useful?
a) Because it gives the information required by you
b) Because it is in printed form
c) Because it gives you pleasure
d) Because it is in the form of conversation
Answer: Because it gives the information required by you
78. Which of the following statements is not TRUE?
a) The books of the hour are multiplying
b) They are peculier characteristic of the present age
c) They are true scriptures of their writers
d) We must be thankful for them
Answer: They are true scriptures of their writers
79. How does the writer define the good book of the hour?
a) The good book of the hour is informative in nature
b) It is the useful or pleasant talk of someone in print
c) The good book of the hour is mere communication
d) The good book of the hours has no permanent value
Answer: It is the useful or pleasant talk of someone in print
80. Which of the following conclusions based on the passage is not TRUE?
a) There are good books for all time
b) The good books of the hour are useful as well as pleasant
c) In the present age books of the hour are multiplying with the expansion of education
d) True books have been replaced by books of the hour when we make the worst possible use of them
Answer: There are good books for all time
81. 'The book of the hour' does not deal with one of the following. Identify.
a) Travel accounts
b) Story-telling
c) Fact-telling
d) Preservation of knowledge
Answer: Preservation of knowledge
82. Directions: Choose the option which is closest in meaning to the word given in CAPITALS: MODERATE
a) Not extreme
b) Compromising
c) Idealistic
d) Superficial
Answer: Not extreme
83. Directions: Choose the option which is closest in meaning to the word given in CAPITALS: IMPROPRIETY
a) State of confusion and chaos
b) Actions that are legally unsustainable
c) Unlawful activities
d) Actions that are morally wrong
Answer: Actions that are morally wrong
84. Directions: Choose the option which is closest in meaning to the word given in CAPITALS: BIZARRE
a) Imaginary
b) Non-existent
c) Extremely pathetic
d) Very strange or unusual
Answer: Very strange or unusual
85. Directions: Choose the option which is closest in meaning to the word given in CAPITALS: ASSIDUOUS
a) Anxious
b) Indifferent to one's surroundings
c) Working hard and taking great care
d) Too much worried about one's health
Answer: Working hard and taking great care
86. Directions: Choose the option which is closest in meaning to the word given in CAPITALS: IGNOMINY
a) State of disorder
b) Loss of public property
c) Public shame
d) Disappointment
Answer: Public shame
87. The correct spelling is:
a) Perseverance
b) Persiverance
c) Persivarance
d) Perseverence
Answer: Perseverance
88. The correct spelling is:
a) Haemorhage
b) Hamorrhage
c) Haemorrhage
d) Hemorrhage
Answer: Haemorrhage
89. The correct spelling is:
a) Accommodate
b) Acommodate
c) Accomodate
d) Accomodete
Answer: Accommodate
90. The correct spelling is:
a) Eflorescence
b) Efflorascence
c) Efflorescence
d) Efflerescence
Answer: Efflorescence
91. The correct spelling is:
a) Reminescent
b) Riminescent
c) Riminisent
d) Reminiscent
Answer: Reminiscent
92. Directions: Identify the correct form of verb/phrase out of the given choices so as to complete following sentences: Hardly ______ reached her home when the rain started.
a) she
b) had she
c) did she
d) she had
Answer: had she
93. Directions: Identify the correct form of verb/phrase out of the given choices so as to complete following sentences: The boss wanted to know ______ done the job.
a) how I had
b) that how had I
c) how would I have
d) how had I
Answer: how I had
94. Directions: Identify the correct form of verb/phrase out of the given choices so as to complete following sentences I wish I ______ a king.
a) were
b) was
c) am
d) shall be
Answer: were
95. Directions: Four alternative ways of converting the direct speech into indirect speech are suggested for each of the following sentences. Find out the correct one: 'Don't go near the water, children', she said.
a) She suggested that the children should not go near the water
b) She asked the children that they may not go near the water
c) She urged the children that they might not go near the water
d) She warned the children not to go near the water
Answer: She warned the children not to go near the water
96. Directions: Four alternative ways of converting the direct speech into indirect speech are suggested for each of the following sentences. Find out the correct one: He said, 'Please, please give me another chance'.
a) He said politely that he may be given another chance
b) He begged them to give him another chance
c) He requested if he can be given another chance
d) He requested if he could be given another chance
Answer: He begged them to give him another chance
97. The meaning of the idiom "a broken reed" is:
a) futile effort
b) rare
c) unreliable
d) a sudden great shock
Answer: unreliable
98. The masculine gender of "Goose" is:
a) Drone
b) Drake
c) Gander
d) None of the above
Answer: Gander
99. Which of the following is not correct (with reference to narration)?
a) In changing direct speech into Indirect speech, a simple present becomes a simple past when the reported verb is in past tense form.
b) The 'shall' of the future tense is changed into 'should' when the reported verb is in past tense form.
c) The 'will' of the future tense is changed into 'shall' and 'should' when the reported verb is in past tense form.
d) The pronouns of the direct speech are changed where necessary.
Answer: The 'will' of the future tense is changed into 'shall' and 'should' when the reported verb is in past tense form.
100. In the formation of nouns from verbs which of the following is not correct?
a) Abdicate - Abdication
b) Abdicate - Abduction
c) Adopt - Adoption
d) Affect - Affectation
Answer: Abdicate - Abduction
101. Which of the following words has correct spelling?
a) Rendezvous
b) Rendau
c) Rendawoos
d) None of the above
Answer: Rendezvous
102. Which of the following rules is not correct (with reference to narration)?
a) When the reporting is, in the principal verb, in the past tense, all present tenses of the direct are changed into the corresponding past tenses.
b) If the reporting verb is in the present tense, the tenses of the direct speech do not change.
c) The pronouns of the direct speech are changed where necessary.
d) Words expressing nearness in time or place never change.
Answer: Words expressing nearness in time or place never change.
103. Which of the following statements is not correct with reference to English grammar?
a) Case is a modification of the noun to distinguish its relation to other words.
b) Normative case has no relationship with a finite verb.
c) Possessive case denotes ownership or possession.
d) Objective case denotes a direct object of a transitive verb or the indirect object of a preposition.
Answer: Normative case has no relationship with a finite verb.
104. Which of the following statements is not correct?
a) Numerical adjectives include the cardinal and the ordinal numbers.
b) Partitive adjectives denote a part of a class or object.
c) Descriptive adjectives denote quality, kind or condition.
d) Proper adjectives are non-descriptive adjectives.
Answer: Proper adjectives are non-descriptive adjectives.
105. In the expression. "Teaching is a science". the italicised word is:
a) Verbal noun
b) Abstract noun
c) Concrete noun
d) None of the above
Answer: Verbal noun
106. Which statement is not correct with reference to primary auxiliary?
a) Primary auxiliaries may be used independently as principal verbs (in some cases).
b) Primary auxiliaries may change according to person, number and gender.
c) Primary auxiliaries may be used as infinite forms of the verb if 'to' precedes them.
d) The sole purpose of primary auxiliary is to demonstrate the super segmental feature of expression.
Answer: The sole purpose of primary auxiliary is to demonstrate the super segmental feature of expression.
107. Which of the following is an example of Indirect Personal Pronoun, reflexive?
a) they
b) one-another
c) myself
d) to-myself
Answer: to-myself
108. Which of the following sentences is grammatically correct?
a) We rarely see a lion.
b) We scarcely see a lion.
c) He played good.
d) He lives miserly.
Answer: We rarely see a lion.
109. Which of the following is grammatically incorrect?
a) Write in ink.
b) He threw the stick into the river.
c) We went nearby the station.
d) He was a favourite with his friends.
Answer: We went nearby the station.
110. Which of the following pairs is mismatched?
a) Simple preposition : after
b) Compound preposition : off
c) Disguised preposition : "a" and "o"
d) Participle preposition : in lieu of
Answer: Participle preposition : in lieu of
111. Which of the following expressions is correct?
a) Yours sincerely
b) Your' s sincerely
c) Your sincerely
d) Your's sincerely
Answer: Yours sincerely
112. Which of the following sentences is grammatically correct?
a) Everyone should pray God.
b) He wrote to me.
c) He wrote me.
d) He suggested me this.
Answer: He wrote to me.
113. Which of the following pairs is mismatched?
a) Hamlet : 1601
b) Twelfth Night : 1601
c) Cymbeline : 1608
d) The Tempest : 1611
Answer: Cymbeline : 1608
114. Which of the following is not a title to a play written by William Shakespeare?
a) Henry VI
b) Henry VIII
c) Henry IV
d) Henry VII
Answer: Henry VII
115. Which of the following statements is incorrect with reference to John Milton?
a) In 1671, Milton issued his last volume of poetry, which contained 'Paradise Regained' and 'Samson Agonistes'.
b) 'Paradise Regained' is briefer and poorer than 'Paradise Lost'.
c) 'Samson Agonistes', in form, has no unity of time, place and action.
d) 'Lycidas' has the colour and music of the best spenserian verse.
Answer: 'Samson Agonistes', in form, has no unity of time, place and action.
116. In which of the following the adjective is not followed by correct preposition?
a) Careful of dress
b) Annoyed at things
c) Busy at lessons
d) Horrified at the sight
Answer: Careful of dress
117. With reference to the use of Punctuation marks, which of the following statements is not correct?
a) A "dash" is never used to show a sudden change in thought
b) A "dash" is used to set off words in apposition or explanation.
c) A "caret" is put below and aside the word or letter if some letter or word is to be inserted.
d) A "dash" is used to summarize several subjects all belonging to the same verb.
Answer: A "dash" is never used to show a sudden change in thought
118. Which of the following idiomatic comparison is not correct?
a) As bitter as gall
b) As cheerful as bark
c) As red as cherry
d) As silent as star
Answer: As cheerful as bark
119. Which of the following is mismatched with reference to word/antonym sequence?
a) Acquit : Convict
b) Grand : Ordinary
c) Humble : Haughty
d) Desolate : Percolate
Answer: Desolate : Percolate
120. Which of the following works of William Shakespeare is written in six-line stanza and shows decided sings of immaturity?
a) The Passionate Pilgrim
b) The Rape of Lucrece
c) Venus and Adonis
d) None of the above
Answer: Venus and Adonis
121. Which of the following plays depicts middle-class provincial life?
a) The Merry Wives
b) A Midsummer Night's Dream
c) Antony and Cleopatra
d) The Winter's Tale
Answer: The Merry Wives
122. Which of the following work is not written by John Milton?
a) Of Education
b) Areopagitica
c) On Shakespeare
d) Alma or the Progress of the Mind
Answer: Alma or the Progress of the Mind
123. Which of the following works is not written by John Milton?
a) On His Blindness
b) On the Late Massacre of Piedmont
c) Ode on the Morning of Christ's Nativity
d) The Passionate Pilgrim
Answer: The Passionate Pilgrim
124. Which of the following statements is true about Milton's sonnet 'On His Blindness'?
a) 'On His Blindness' is a precursor to 'Lycidas'
b) 'On His Blindness' is a curtel sonnet
c) Milton did not give a title to his sonnet. The title 'On His Blindness' is given by later anthologists
d) None of the above
Answer: Milton did not give a title to his sonnet. The title 'On His Blindness' is given by later anthologists
125. 'An Evening Walk' is written by:
a) William Wordsworth
b) William Shakespeare
c) John Milton
d) John Galsworthy
Answer: William Wordsworth
