①
Famous Quotations About William Shakespeare
There Shakespeare, on whose forehead climb
The crowns o' the world; oh, eyes sublime
With tears and laughter for all time!
Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861), A Vision of
Poets
With this same key
Shakespeare unlocked his heart' once more!
Did Shakespeare? If so, the less Shakespeare he!
Robert Browning (1812-1899), House
And there are Ben [Jonson] and William Shakespeare in wit-
combat, sure enough; Ben bearing down like a mighty
Spanish war-ship, fraught with all learning and artillery;
Shakespeare whisking away from him - whisking right
through him, athwart the big bulk and timbers of him; like a
miraculous Celestial Light-ship, woven all of sheet-lightning
and sunbeams!
Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881), Historical Sketches of
Notable Persons and Events in the Reigns of James I
The souls most fed with Shakespeare's flame
Still sat unconquered in a ring,
Remembering him like anything.
G. K. Chesterton (1874-1936), The Shakespeare Memorial
It is sometimes suspected that the enthusiasm for
Shakespeare's works shown by some students is a fiction or afashion. It is not so. The justification of that enthusiastic
admiration is in the fact that every increase of knowledge and
deepening of wisdom in the critic or the student do but show
still greater knowledge and deeper wisdom in the great poet.
When, too, it is found that his judgment is equal to his
genius, and that his industry is on a par with his inspiration,
it becomes impossible to wonder or to admire too
much. George Dawson (1821-1876), Shakespeare and
other lectures
Our myriad-minded Shakespeare.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834), Biography. Chap.
XV
He was the man who of all modern, and perhaps ancient
poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul.
John Dryden (1631-1700), Essay of Dramatic Poesy
He is the very Janus of poets; he wears almost everywhere
two faces; and you have scarce begun to admire the one, ere
you despise the other.
John Dryden (1631-1700), Essay on Dramatic Poetry of
the Last Age
But Shakespeare's magic could not copied be;
Within that circle none durst walk but he.
John Dryden (1631-1700) Essay of Dramatic Poesy
He was naturally learned; he needed not the spectacles of
books to read nature. He looked inwards, and found her There
John
Dryden (1631-1700) essay of Dramatic Poesythere.
John Dryden (1631-1700) Essay of Dramatic Poesy
The modern democrat, perhaps, will often find it in a form
which at first sight is distasteful to him. Shakespeare's whole
reading of history is aristocratic. He concentrates the history
of the nation in the doings of its leaders; the people are of
small account, and seldom appear upon the scene except to
display their fickleness, their stupidity, or their
WITH
brutality.... [But] in the time at which Shakespeare wrote, no
other presentation of fact would have been possible. The
people had not yet emerged into political existence, and to
present them as other than they were would not only have
been a piece of political prescience which can hardly be
expected even of the greatest of artists, it would have been a
falsification of the truth. Shakespeare was essentially a
creature of the time, and he read history with the eyes of his
time. He had doubtless a fuller vision and a clearer, but it
was his own time that he interpreted and not ours.
Ernest De Selincourt (1870-1943), English Poets and the
National Ideal
I do not believe that any writer has ever exposed
this bovarysme, the human will to see things as they are not,
more clearly than Shakespeare.
T. S. Eliot (1888-1965), Shakespeare and the Stoicism of
Seneca
I am the owner of the sphere
Of the seven stars and the solar year,Of Caesar's hand, and Plato's brain
Of Lord Christ's heart, and Shakespeare's strain.
Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), The Absorbing Soul
Nor sequent centuries could hit
Orbit and sum of Shakespeare's wit.
Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), May-Day and Other
Pieces
When Shakespeare is charged with debts to his authors,
Landor replies, "Yet he was more original than his originals.
He breathed upon dead bodies and brought them into life."
Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), Letters and Social
Aims
"
The remarkable thing about Shakespeare is that he is really
very good - in spite of all the people who say he is very
good.
Robert Graves (1895-1985)
In Shakespeare the birds sing, the bushes are clothed with
green, hearts love, souls suffer, the cloud wanders, it is hot, it
is cold, night falls, time passes, forests and multitudes speak,
the vast eternal dream hovers over all. Sap and blood, all
forms of the multiple reality, actions and ideas, man and
humanity, the living and the life, solitudes, cities, religions,
diamonds and pearls, dung-hills and charnelhouses, the ebb
and flow of beings, the steps of comers and goers, all, all are
on Shakespeare and in Shakespeare.
Victor Hugo (1802-1885), William Shakespeare
0A quibble is to Shakespeare what luminous vapours are to
the traveller: he follows it at all adventures; it is sure to lead
him out of his way and sure to engulf him in the mire.
Ben Jonson (1573-1637) Prelice in the First Folio
Soule of the Age!
The applause! delight! The wonder of our stage!
Ben Jonson (1573 - 1637), Preface to the First Folio
Sweet Swan of Avon!
Ben Jonson (1573 - 1637), Preface to the First Folio
He was not of an age, but for all time!
Ben Jonson (1573-1637), Preface to the First Folio
I remember your saying that you had notions of a good
Genius presiding over you. I have of late had the same
thought - for things which I do half at Random are afterwards
confirmed by my judgment in a dozen features of Propriety.
Is it too daring to fancy Shakespeare this Presider?
John Keats (1795-1821), Letter to B.R. Haydon, May 1817
When I read Shakespeare I am struck with wonder
That such trivial people should muse and thunder
In such lovely language.
D. H. Lawrence (1885-1930)
But Shakespeare knows what the sphinx thinks, if anybody
does. His genius is penetrative as cold midwinter entering
every room, and making warmth shiver in ague fits. I thinkShakespeare never errs in his logical sequence in character.
He surprises us, seems unnatural to us, but because we have
been superficial observers; while genius will disclose those
truths to which we are blind.
William A. Quayle (1860-1925), Some Words on Loving
Shakespeare. From A hero and some other folk, 1900
Or sweetest Shakespeare, Fancy's child,
Warble his native wood-notes wild.
John Milton (1608-1674), L'Allegro
What needs my Shakespeare for his honour'd bones,
The labour of an age in piled stones,
Or that his hallow'd relics should be hid
Under a star-y-pointing pyramid?
Dear son of memory, great heir of fame,
What need'st thou such weak witness of thy name?
John Milton (1608-1674), Epitaph on Shakespeare
And so sepulchered in such pomp dost lie,
That kings for such a tomb would wish to die.
John Milton (1608-1674), Epitaph
The fact is, Shakespeare was not sectarian; he pleaded
nobody's mission, he stated nobody's cause. He has written
with a view to be a mirror of things as they are; and shows
the office of the true poet and literary man, which is to re-
create the soul of man as God has created it, and human
society as man has made it.
George Dawson (1821-1876), Shakespeare and Other
LecturesAnd one wild Shakespeare, following Nature's lights,
Is worth whole planets, filled with Stagyrites.
Thomas More (1779-1852), The Sceptic
Shakespeare - The nearest thing in incarnation to the eye of
God.
Laurence Olivier (1907-1989)
Wonderful women! Have you ever thought how much we all,
and women especially, owe to Shakespeare for his
vindication of women in these fearless, high-spirited,
resolute and intelligent heroines?
Dame Ellen Terry (1848-1928)
One of the greatest geniuses that ever existed,
Shakespeare, undoubtedly wanted taste.
Horace Walpole (1717-1797), Letter to Wren, 1764
Scorn not the Sonnet; Critic, you have frowned,
Mindless of its just honours; with this key
Shakespeare unlocked his heart.
William Wordsworth (1770-1850), Miscellaneous Sonnets
He is as a mountain, whose majesty and multitudinous
beauty, meaning, and magnitude and impress, must be gotten
by slow processes in journeying about it through many days.
Who sits under its pines at noon, lies beside its streams for
rest, walks under its lengthening shadows as under a cloud,
and has listened to the voices of its water falls, thrilling the09
GEM,
night and calling to the spacious firmament as if with intent
to be heard "very far off," has thus learned the mountain, vast
of girth, kingly in altitude, perpetual in sovereignty. We study
a world's circumference by segments; nor let us suppose we
can do other by this cosmopolitan Shakespeare. He, so far as
touches our earth horizon, is ubiquitous. Looking at him
sum-totally, we feel his mass, and say we have looked upon
majesty.
William A. Quayle (1860-1925), Some Words on Loving
Shakespeare. From A hero and some other folk, 1900
We shall never overestimate Shakespeare, because we can
not. Some men and things lie beyond the danger of
hyperbole. No exaggeration is possible concerning them,
seeing they transcend all dreams. Space can not be conceived
by the most luxuriant imagination, holding, as it does, all
worlds, and capable of holding another universe besides, and
with room to spare. Clearly, we can not overestimate space.
Thought and vocabulary become bankrupt when they attempt
this bewildering deed. Genius is as immeasurable as space.
Shakespeare can not be measured. We can not go about him,
since life fails, leaving the journey not quite well begun. Yet
may we attempt what can not be performed, because each
attempt makes us worthy, and we are measured, not by what
we achieve, but by what we attempt.
William A. Quayle (1860-1925), Some Words on Loving
Shakespeare. From A hero and some other folk, 1900
thin li
J
11Q42
AS YOU LIKE IT
O, how full of briars is this working-day world! (Rosalind, Act 1
Scene 3)
In Beauty provoke eththieves sooner than gold. (Rosalind, Act 1 S
3)
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter, Frosty, but kindly. (Adam,
Act 2 S 3
In thy youth thou wastas true a lover As ever sighed upon a
midnight pillow. (Silvius, Act 2 Scene 4)
We that are true lovers run into st
Act 2 S 4)
strange capers. (Touchstone,
Thou speak eestwiser than thou art ware of. (Rosalind, Act 2 S
spite o brow
4)
Song
rupolos
Under the greenwood tree... Do you not know I am a woman?
When I think, I must speak. (Rosalind, Act 3 Scene 2)
Te
Down on your knees,And thank heaven, fasting, for a good
man's love. (Rosalind, Act 3 Scene 5)
pray you do not fall in love with me, For I am falser than
vows made in wine. (Rosalind, Act 3 Scene 5)
Forever and a day. (Orlando, Act 4 Scene 1)
O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through
another man's eyes!(Orlando, Act 5 Scene 2)
1under the Creewood tree It summarises the
view of Duke senior on the.
by Amiens sing
Blow Blow Thou winter wind
Amiens
what shall he have that killed the dear
@ It was a lover and his lass=
Prelude to wedding cermony
7 All the world's a stage-
monologue -
Melancholy Jaques
Act IIF
TWELTH NIGHT
Af music be the food of love, play on. (Orsino, Act 1 Scene 1)
What country, friends, is this? (Viola, Act 1 Scene 2)
But
But I am a great eater of beef, and I believe that does harm to
my wit. (Sir Andrew, Act 1 Scene 3)
I'll do my best To woo your lady. -Yet, a barful strife! Whoe'
erl woo, myself would be his wife. (Viola, Act 1, Scene 4)
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage.(Feste, Act 1 S
5)
Better a witty fool than a foolish wit. (Feste, Act 1 Scene 5)
Make me a willow cabin at your gate, And call upon my soul
within the house. (Viola, Act 1, Scene 5)
Some are born great, some achieve greatness and some have
greatness thrust upon 'em. (Malvolio, Act 2 Scene 5)
Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb like the sun, it shines
everywhere.(Feste, Act 3 Scene 1)
If this were played upon a stage now, I could condemn it as an
improbable fiction. (Fabian, Act 3 Scene 4)
Prove true, imagination, O, prove true, That I, dear brother, be
now ta'en for you!(Viola, Act Scene 4)
One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons, A natural
perspective that is and is not!(Orsino, Act 5 Scene 1
Twelfth Night is a st, sily play and not
related at all to the name or day.
L
Samual Pepys
(Restoration diarist)And thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges. (Feste,
Act 5 Scene 1)
I'll be revenged on the whole pack of you. (Malvolio, Act 5 S 1)
MID SUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
Anepilogueis a short speech (often in verse) addressed directly
to the audience by an actor at the end of a play. In A
Midsummer Night's Dream, Puck delivers this epilogue: If we
shadows have offended, Think but this, and all is mended, That
you have but slumber' dhere While these visions did appear.
Actof
And this weak and idle theme, No more yielding but a dream,
Gentles, do not reprehend: if you pardon, we will mend: And,
as I am an honest Puck, If we have unearned luck Now to
'scapethe serpent's tongue, We will make amends ere long;
Else the Puck a liar call;So, good night unto you all. Give me
your hands, if we be friends, And Robin shall restore amends.")
(V, i. 440-455)
The course of true love never did run smooth. (Lysander, Act
1S1)
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, And therefore
is winged Cupid painted blind. (Helena, Act 1 Scene 1) = itless
Allussion
I must go seek some dewdrops here, And hang a pearl in every
cowslip's ear.(Fairy, Act 2 Scene 1)
Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania. (Oberon, Act 2 Scene 1)
The most insipid ridiculous play that every
Saw in
my
life.
سا
By Samual PepeyCupid is a knavish lad, Thus to make poor females mad. (Puck,
Act 3 2)
Jack shall have Jill, Nought shall go ill, The man shall have
his mare again, and all shall be well. (Puck, Act 3 Scene 2)
Methought I was enamoured of an ass. (Titania, Act 4 Scene 1)
In Lovers and madmen have such seething brains, Such shaping
fantasies, that apprehend More than cool reason ever
®.
comprehends. The lunatic, the lover and the poet Are of
imagination all compact: One sees more devils than vast hell
can hold, That is, the madman: the lover, all as frantic, Sees
Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt: The poet's eye, in fine
frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to
heaven; And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things
unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes and gives to
airy nothing A local habitation and a name."Theseus, (act 5,s
1) Lover, Poet,
ROMEO AND JULIET
Prolouge in Act II
Two households, both alike in dignity, In fair Verona, where
we lay our scene, From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean. From forth the
fatal loins of these two foesA pair of star-cross'd lovers take
their life; Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Do with
their death bury their parents' strife. The fearful passage of
their death-mark'dlove, And the continuance of their parents'
>> Reneo and Juliet the first it was ever
acted a play the worst that ever: I heared
Jin
my life Samual Repy Repeysrage, which, but their children's end, nought could remove, Is
now the two hours' traffic of our stage; The which if you with
patient ears attend, What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to
mend
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie, And young affection
gapes to be his heir; That fair for which love groan'dfor and
would die, with tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair. Now
Romeo is beloved and loves again, Alike betwitched by the
charm of looks, But to his foe supposed he must complain, And
she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks: Being held a foe,
he may not have access To breathe such vows as lovers use to
swear; And she as much in love, her means much less To meet
her new-beloved any where:But passion lends them power,
time means, to meet Tempering extremities with extreme sweet
LINES
"Love is a smoke made with the fume of sighs. Being purged, a
fire sparkling in lovers' eyes; Being vex'da sea nourish'dwith
lovers' tears." Romeo (act 1 scene 1)
My life is my foe's debt.( Romeo, Act I, Scene 5)"Women may
fall when there's no strength in men."
THE TEMPEST
Full fathom five thy father lies
Song by Ariel
The phrase is part of what is known as "Ariel's Song" in the
play. It appears in Act I, Scene 2 and is spoken by the spirit
Ariel.Full fathom five thy father lies;
Of his bones are coral made;
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
Nothing of him that doth fade,
But doth suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange.
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:
Ding-dong.Hark! now I hear them,-ding-dong, bell
O, I have suffered With those that I saw suffer. (Miranda, Act 1
Scene 2)
My library was dukedom large enough. (Prospero, Act 1 Scene
2)
ILOR
Ferdinand, With hair up-staring-then like reeds, not hair -
Was the first man that leaped; cried 'Hell is empty And all the
devils are here.'(Ariel, Act 1 Scene 2)
For I am all the subjects that you have, Which first was mine
own king. (Caliban, Act 1 Scene 2)
You taught me language, and my profit on'tIs I know how to
curse. The red plague rid youFor learning me your language!
"Caliban(Act 1, Scene 2)
The
The rarer action isIn virtue than in vengeance. (Prospero, Act
v, Scene I)Misery acquaints a man with strange bed fellows.(Trinculo, Act
2 Scene 2)
Hast thou not dropped from heaven? (Caliban, Act 2 Scene 2)
I am your wife, if you will marry me: If not, I'll die your maid:
to be your fellow You may deny me, but I'll be your servant,
Whether you will or no. (Miranda, Act 3 Scene 1)
The clouds methought would open and show riches Ready to
drop upon me, that when I waked, I cried to dream again
Our revels now are ended. These our actors, As I foretold you,
were all spirits andAre melted into air, into thin air; And, like
the baseless fabric of this vision, The cloud-capp'dtowers, the
gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe
itself, Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve, And, like this
insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rack behind. We are
such stuff As dreams are made on: and our little life Is
rounded with a sleep. (Prospero, Act 4 Scene 1)
at
cene 2
vens
nia,
It will
1.
Where the bee sucks, there suck I:In a cowslip's bell I lie:
There I couch when owls do cry. On the bat's back I do fly
After summer merrily. Merrily, merrily, shall I live now Under
the blossom that hangs on the bough. (Ariel, Act 5 Scene 1)
O, wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How
beauteous mankind is! O brave new world, That has such
people in't.(Miranda, Act 5 Scene 1)
As you from crimes would pardoned be, Let your indulgence
set me free. (Prospero, Epilogue)
I have
ene
4
con
ne
of
nyou
seem to misunderstand me
By
each at once her choppy finger loying
Upon her skinny lips: you should be women
And yet your beards for bid me to interpret
That
Ans
you
ave
soThe quality of mercy is not strained. It droppethas the gentle
rain from heaven Upon the place beneath.......It is
enthronedin the hearts of kings; It is an attribute to God
himself, And earthly power doth then show, likest God's When
mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew, Though justice be thy
plea, consider this: That in the course of justice none of us
Should see salvation. We do pray for mercy, And that same
prayer doth teach us all to render The deeds of
mercy.(IV.i.179-197)
The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with
concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, state gems, and
spoils. The motions of his spirit are dull as night, And his
affections dark as Erebus.-Lorenzo, Act V, Scene I.
"All that glitters is not gold-
Often have you heard that told.
Many a man his life hath sold
But
my outside to behold.
Gilded tombs do worms enfold."
-Morocco, Act II, Scene VII
"Love is blind, and lovers cannot see the pretty follies that
themselves commit. "Jessica, Act II, Scene VI.
"Sweet lady, you have given me life and living. For here I read
for certain that my ships Are safely come to road."-Antonio,
Act V, Scene I.what is honour? A word its that word honour
I
Air A trim reckoning & who hath it He that
died 0' wednesday. Doth he feel it? No
Doth he heave it No. is it insensible then?
yea to the dead. But will it not live with
The living. No why?
Detraction will not suffer it therefore I will
J
none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon and
so ends my catechism
Ans= Falstaff in King Henry II- P-IJULIUS CEASER
Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant
never taste of death but once." -Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 2
"When beggars die there are no comets seen: The heavens
themselves blaze forth the death of princes."--Calphurnia,
Act 2, Scene
"Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will
come."Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 2.
Beware the ides of March."Soothsayer, Act 1, Scene 1.
"Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue! I have a
man's mind but a woman's might. "Portia, Act 2, Scene 4
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears; I come to
bury Caesar, not to praise him." Antony, Act 3, Scene 2.
☐ The evil that men do lives after them The good is oft
interred with their bones. Mark Antony (Act 3, Scene 2
Et tu, Brute?"-Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 1.
"Men at some time are masters of their fates; The fault, dear
Brutus, is not in our stars,But in ourselves, that we are
underlings." -Cassius, Act 1, Scene 2.
"There is a tide in the affairs of men."Brutus, Act 4, Scene 3.
"As he was valiant, I honor him. But as he was ambitious, I
slew him."-Brutus, Act 3, Scene 2.2
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety.
Other women cloy, The appetites they feed, but she makes
hungry. Where most she satisfies."Enobarbus (Act 2, Scene 2)
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide archOf the ranged
empire fall: here is my space. (Antony, Act 1 Scene 1)
My salad days, When I was green in judgement, cold in blood.
(Cleopatra, Act 1 Scene 5)
HAMLET
"O God! O God! Howweary, state and unprofitable seems to
me all the uses of this world." (Hamlet, Act 1 Scene 2)
"Listen to many, speak to a few."(Polonius, act 1 scene 3)
"Neither a borrower nor a lender be, For loan oft loses both
itself and friend, And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry."
☐ (Polonius, act 1 scene 3)
"This above all:to thineown self be true,And it must follow, as
the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man.”
(Polonius, act 1 scene 3)
"O, that this too, too solid flesh would melt, Thaw and resolve
itself into a dew!"(Hamlet, act 1 scene 2)
"Listen to many, speak to a few. "(Polonius, act I scene 3).
"Neither a borrower nor a lender be, For loan oft loses both
itself and friend, And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry."
I saw Att Hampet played, but now old plays
begin to diguest this refined age, since His
Majesty's is
being abroad.
L Evelyn(Polonius, act 1 scene 3)
3
"This above all:to thineown self be true,And it must follow, as
the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any
man."(Polonius, act 1 scene 3)
"...though I am native hereAnd to the manner born, it is a
customMore honouredin the breach than the
observance."(Hamlet, act 1 scene 4)
"Something is rotten in the state of Denmark."(Marcellus, act
1 scene 4)
"That one may smile and smile and be a villain."(Hamlet, act 1
scene 5)
"There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are
dreamt of in ourphilosophy."(Hamlet, act 1 scene 5)
"Brevity is the soul of wit."(Polonius, act 2 scene 2) "Though
this be madness, yet there is method in't."(Polonius, act 2
scene 2)
"There is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it
so."(Hamlet, act 2 scene 2)
"O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!"(Hamlet, act 2 scene
2)
"Doubt thou the stars are fire;Doubt that the sun doth
move; Doubt truth to be a liar;But never doubt I
love."(Polonius, act 2 scene 2)
Hambet, lying wounded, says to his friend
Horatio, I am dead
-This is Example of
э
ProlepsixWhat a piece of work is a man! How noble inreason, how
infinite in faculty! In form and movinghow express and
admirable! In action how like an Angel!in apprehension how
like a god! The beauty of theworld! The paragon of animals!
And yet to me, what isthis quintessence of dust? Man delights
not me; no,nor Woman neither; though by your smiling you
seemto say so.."(Hamlet, act 2 scene 2)
To be, or not to be, that is the question."(Hamlet, act 3 scene 1)
"God hath given you one face, and you make yourself
another."(Hamlet, act 3 scene 1)
"To die, to sleep-To sleep, perchance to dream-ay, there's the
rub, For in this sleep of death what dreams may
come..."(Hamlet, act 3 scene 1)
"The lady doth protest too much, methinks."(Gertrude, act 3
scene 2)
"My words fly up, my thoughts remain below: Words without
thoughts never to heaven go."(Claudius, act 3 scene 3)
"I must be cruel only to be kind; Thus bad begins, and worse
remains behind."(Hamlet, act 3 scene 4)
"How all occasions do inform against me, and spur my
revenge."(Hamlet, act 2 scene 4)
dull
"Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: A fellow of infinite
jest."(Hamlet, act 5 scene 1)→ Thenke
⇒ There is special Providence in the
Fall of a sparrow.
Hamletlife
Was
gentle and
Refined Age = Restoration Age=
1660-1700)⇒ Keep up your bright swords for
the dew will rust them.
Good signbor, you shall more
க்,
Command with years. Than with
your weapons by othello
Brabantio, Roderigo
and officersOur bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills are
gardeners. (Iago, Act 1 scene 3)
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my
reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what
remains is bestial. (Cassio, Act 2 Scene 3)
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy:It is the green-eyed monster
which doth mock The meat it feeds on. (Iago, Act 3 Scene 3)
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my
reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what
remains is bestial. (Cassio, Act 2 Scene 3)
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy:It is the green-eyed monster
which doth mock The meat it feeds on. (Iago, Act & Scene 3)
Tis not a year or two shows us a man: They are all but
stomachs, and we all but food: They eat us hungerly, and when
they are full They belch us. (Emilia, Act 3 Scene 4)
Yet I'll not shed her blood, Nor scar that whiter skin of hers
than snow, And smooth as monumental alabaster. (Othello, Act
5 Scene 2)
Let heaven and men and devils, let them all, All, all, cry shame
against me, yet I'll speak. (Emilia, Act 5 Scene 2)
I kissed thee ere I killed thee: no way but this, Killing myself,
to die upon a kiss. (Othello, Act 5 scene 2)KING LEAR
Cordelia: Nothing Lear: Nothing can come of nothing, speak
again.(Act 1 Scene 1)
Now, gods, stand up for bastards! (Edmund, Act 1 Scene 2)
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless
child! (Lear, Act 1 Scene 4)
Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been
wise. (Fool, Act, 1 Scene 5)
Blow winds and crack your cheeks! Rage, blow, You cataracts
and hurr
I am a man More sinned against than sinning. (Lear, Act
3Scene 2)
As flies to wanton boys are we to th' gods: They kill us for their
sport.(Gloucester, Act 4 Scene 1)
When we are born, we cry that we are come To this great stage
of fools. (Lear, Act 4 Scene 5)
Men must endure Their going hence, even as their coming
hither. (Edgar, Act 5 Scene 2)
MACBETH
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, Creeps in this
petty pace from day to day, To the last syllable of recorded
time; And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to
dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking
Impshadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the
stage And then is heard no more. It is a tale Told by an idiot,
full of sound and furySignifying nothing.—Macbeth (Act 5,
Scene 5, lines 17-28)
"Fair is foul, and foul is fair." Three Witches(Act 1 Scene 1)
"What bloody man is that?" King Duncan (Act 1 Scene 2)
"If you can look into the seeds of time, And say which grain
will grow and which will not." Banquo(Act 1 Scene 3)
"Or have we eaten on the insane rootThat takes the reason
prisoner?" Banquo (Act 1 Scene 3)
"What! can the devil speak true?" Banquo(Act 1 Scene 3)
"Present fearsAre less than horrible imaginings." King
Duncan (Act 1 Scene 4)
"There's daggers in men's smiles" Donalbain(Act 2 Scene 3)
"Double, double toil and trouble: Fire burn, and cauldron
bubble." Witches (Act 4 Scene 1
"Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my
hand? No, this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas
incarnadine, Making the green one red." Macbeth (Act 2
Scene 2)
"All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand."
Lady Macbeth (Act 5, Scene 1
> The words It it were done when This done
Then twere well / it
are uttered by
were alone
quickly
Lady Macbeth@
O, never Shall sun that morrow see! Your face, my thane, is as
a book where men May read strange matters. To beguile the
time, Look like the time. Bear welcome in your eye, Your hand,
your tongue. Look like th' innocent flower, But be the serpent
under 't. He that's coming Must be provide for: and you shall
put This night's great business into my dispatch, Which shall
to all our nights and days to come Give solely sovereign sway
and masterdom. "Lady Macbeth (Act 1, Scene 5)
Come, you spirits That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me
here, And fill me from the crown to the toe top-fullOf direst
cruelty. Make thick my blood. Stop up th' access and passage to
remorse, That no compunctious visitings of nature Shake my
fell purpose, nor keep peace between Th' effect and it. Come to
my woman's breasts, And take my milk for gall, you murd'
ringministers, Wherever in your sightless substances You wait
on nature's mischief. Come, thick night, And pall thee in the
dunnest smoke of hell, That my keen knife see not the wound it
makes, Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark, To
cry "Hold, hold!"" Lady Macbeth (Act 1, Scene 5)
"When our actions do not, Our fears do make us traitors."
Lady Macduff(Act 4 Scene 2)
"False face must hide what the false heart doth know.”
Macbeth (Act 1 Scene 7)
MEASURE FOR MEARSURE10
Our doubts are traitors, And make us lose the good we oft
might win By fearing to attempt.(Lucio, Act 1 Scene 5)
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall. (Escalus, Act 2 S 1)
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it? (Angelo, Act 2 S 2)
O, it is excellent To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous
To use it like a giant. (Isabella, Act 2 Scene 2)
Is this her fault or mine? The tempter or the tempted, who sins
most? (Angelo, Act 2 Scene 2)
The miserable have no other medicine But only hope. (Claudio,
Act 3 Scene 1)
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good. (Duke,
Act 3 Scene 1)
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. (Duke, Act 3 Scene
1)
O, what may man within him hide, Though angel on the
outward side! (Duke, Act 3 Scene 1)
Truth is truth To th'end of reckning. (Isabella, Act 5 S1)
Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure, Like doth
quit like, and measure still for measure. (Duke, Act 5 Scene 1)
The miserable have no other medicine But only hope.(Claudio,
Act 3 Scene 1)
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good. (Duke,
Act 3 Scene 1)